father Isa fears this church will soon
be empty of its worshippers he preaches
at one of the holiest sites in
Christianity the Church of the Nativity
in Bethlehem believed to be the
birthplace of Jesus Christ in his Greek
Orthodox Church alone he says more than
1500 people have left Palestine in the
past few years I know many people are
actually preparing for immigration like
about nine families and it's it's not
easy for for us even because I called
the Bethlehem people the bethlehemite I
called them the living ston under an
Israeli closure for 3 months and under a
military occupation for decades life has
become difficult for people in Bethlehem
it's a historic city that has always
depended on tourism especially during
the Christmas and Easter Seasons
Nativity Church is not like this during
Christmas time it's used to be full many
people around it's like full of love uh
uh Joy
joyful many here say it's not a time to
celebrate but to mourn churches have
called off Christmas celebrations
because of Israel's war on Gaza but the
prayers continue many here say the
causes of immigration are affecting both
Palestinian Christians and Muslims but
because the Christian Community is
already shrinking they say one Christian
family leaving is one too many M kerer
knows this feeling very well gener
ations of her relatives have left their
homes during different waves of
immigration her five uncles left after
1948 SBA her brother after the First
Palestinian Uprising her two sons after
the second Palestinian Uprising it's
oppression from the occupation I like my
children to be around me but I'm happy
also because they can have a future we
don't have good life here we can't live
Natural Life in in Palestine we are
always afraid the checkpoints no work no
security no nothing no peace no
nothing as the number of Christians here
dwindles may says it's becoming more
important for Palestinian Christians to
stay in their Homeland father Isa says
life might be more tempting abroad but
he believes he was born in Jesus's
birthplace for a reason to spread hope
in the middle of Darkness nid ibraim Al
jazer Bethlehem the occup
Westbank make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer